---
title: "The Best Top Free Image Websites for UX & Product Designers"
slug: "best-top-free-image-websites"
date: "2023-06-27"
description: "As UX or Product Designers, whilst designing we often need a quick placeholder image which conveys the meaning of the page for user testing purposes even though it may well be replaced later by the marketing team."
introHeading: "As UX or Product Designers, whilst designing we often need a quick placeholder image which conveys the meaning of the page for user testing purposes even though it may well be replaced later by the marketing team."
heroImage: "/images/webflow-cdn/free-image-sites-hero.jpg"
thumbnailImage: "/images/webflow-cdn/free-image-sites-thumb.png"
published: true
featured: false
featuredPortfolio: false
ctaText: "Learn design by email (free)"
ctaLink: "https://artfuly.click/email"
titleTag: "Discover the Best Top Free Image Websites for UX & Product Designers"
metaDescription: "Unleash your creativity with these top free image websites! From stunning landscapes to eye-catching graphics, find the perfect visuals for your designs and mockups"
---

<p id="">Until a few years ago when free stock photography websites came out, sourcing photos used to be expensive. These free image platforms have great high quality images, and if you end up using the image live you are expected to give a credit to the photographer, which is only fair and helps the photographer and platform gain some traction for their hard work. </p><p id=""></p><h3 id="">1. <a id="" href="https://unsplash.com/" target="_blank">Unsplash</a></h3><p id="">Unsplash is a popular website that offers a vast collection of high-quality, free images. It has over 1 million photos, which are contributed by a global community of photographers.</p><p id="">Their images cover a wide range of topics, from landscapes and cityscapes to food and people. They are perfect for use in digital and print media, web design, and social media.</p><p id="">Unsplash offers a range of features that make finding and using images a breeze:</p><p id="">You can search for images by keyword, collection, or contributor. You can create and share collections of images. Unsplash has a curated collection of editorial images that can be used for news-related stories. Unsplash has an API that allows developers to access its library of images.</p><p id=""></p><h3 id="">2. <a id="" href="https://www.pexels.com/" target="_blank">Pexels</a></h3><p id="">Pexels is a popular free photo site offering a vast collection of high-quality visuals and graphics sourced from various photographers worldwide. With over 1 million images and videos available, users can easily find the perfect visual for their projects. </p><p id="">Pexels ensures quality by hand-picking each image, and all visuals are licensed under Creative Commons Zero (CC0), allowing for unrestricted commercial use without attribution. The user-friendly interface and advanced search options, including keyword, color, and photographer search, make finding and downloading images quick and effortless, making Pexels a go-to source for free, high-quality images for diverse creative needs.</p><p id=""></p><h3 id="">3. <a id="" href="https://pixabay.com/" target="_blank">Pixabay</a></h3><p id="">Pixabay is a valuable resource for free images, offering a vast collection of over 1.9 million photos, illustrations, and icons under the Creative Commons Zero (CC0) license, allowing unrestricted use without attribution, even for commercial projects. What sets Pixabay apart is its robust search functionality, enabling users to filter images by color, orientation, size, category, and media type. With a diverse range of media types and advanced search features, Pixabay provides an extensive selection of high-quality visuals, making it a go-to platform for finding stunning content.</p><p id=""></p><h3 id="">4. <a id="" href="https://www.freepik.com/" target="_blank">Freepik</a></h3><p id="">Freepik is a website that offers a vast collection of free and premium graphic resources for designers and creatives. It provides a wide range of high-quality graphic templates, illustrations, icons, photos, and vectors that can be used for various design projects, presentations, websites, and commercial purposes, helping to enhance and streamline the creative process</p><p id=""></p><h3 id="">5. <a id="" href="https://stocksnap.io/" target="_blank">StockSnap</a></h3><p id="">StockSnap is a carefully curated collection of free stock photos, ensuring both quality and relevance. The website regularly updates its content with new photos covering various themes, styles, and subjects. StockSnap offers an easy-to-use search function that helps users quickly find the perfect photo for their projects, while also providing the option to browse popular searches and filter images by categories. Although StockSnap may not have as many photos as some other websites and lacks the ability to create lightboxes, it remains a valuable resource for accessing high-quality photos efficiently.</p><p id=""></p><h3 id="">6. <a id="" href="https://burst.shopify.com/" target="_blank">Burst</a></h3><p id="">Burst offers a diverse collection of high-quality free photos, covering various themes such as business, travel, and nature. Their standout business-related photos are ideal for websites and marketing materials, while their travel and nature collections cater to bloggers and travel agencies. With an easy-to-use search function and filters for sorting, Burst makes it effortless to find the perfect photo. Additionally, Burst provides free business tips and resources, making it a comprehensive platform for entrepreneurs and small business owners. Overall, Burst is a valuable source for diverse photos and business resources.</p><p id=""></p><h3 id="">7. <a id="" href="https://gratisography.com/" target="_blank">Gratisography</a></h3><p id="">Gratisography is a website curated by artist and designer Ryan McGuire, offering a collection of over 1,000 high-quality, quirky, and unique photos that can be used for personal and commercial purposes without any copyright restrictions. While the library may be smaller compared to other image websites, the photographs cover a wide range of subjects, including animals, people, landscapes, and abstract concepts. The site features a user-friendly interface with a simple search function and categories for easy navigation. With the option to download images in various sizes and subscribe to their mailing list for weekly updates, Gratisography is an excellent resource for adding a touch of creativity and inspiration to projects.</p><p id=""></p><h4 id="">Worthy mentions:</h4><p id="">The sites below don't offer images currently, however their offerings will also pep up your designs</p><p id=""></p><h3 id="">8. <a id="" href="https://www.reshot.com/" target="_blank">Reshot</a></h3><p id="">Reshot.com is a specialized platform that exclusively offers SVG icons and vector illustrations, catering to the needs of designers seeking scalable and editable graphics. With a focus on quality and creativity, Reshot provides a curated collection of unique and visually captivating icons and illustrations from talented artists around the world. By focusing solely on SVG icons and vector illustrations, Reshot ensures that designers can easily incorporate these versatile graphics into their projects, whether it's for websites, apps, presentations, or other design endeavors. The platform offers a convenient and reliable resource for designers looking for high-quality, customizable, and scalable graphics to enhance their creative work.</p><p id=""></p><h3 id="">In Summary...</h3><p id="">Overall, each of these websites offers something different, such as high-quality photos (Unsplash), diverse visuals (Pexels), various types of graphics (Pixabay, Reshot and Freepik), curated collections (StockSnap), unique images (Gratisography), or a combination of features.</p><p id=""></p><h3 id="">FAQ</h3><p id="">Here are some frequently asked questions about using free image websites:</p><h4 id="">Can I use images from free image websites for commercial purposes?</h4><p id="">Yes, you can use images from most free image websites for commercial purposes, but it's important to check each website's terms of use. Some images may require attribution or have other restrictions, so always read the licensing agreement carefully before using any image.</p><h4 id="">What is attribution, and do I have to give it for free images?</h4><p id="">Attribution means giving credit to the creator of the image. Some free image websites require attribution for certain images, while others do not. If attribution is required, you must give credit to the creator of the image whenever you use it. This can usually be done by including the creator's name and the source of the image near the image itself, or in the credits section of your project.</p><h4 id="">Can I modify free images for my own use?</h4><p id="">Most free image websites allow you to modify images for your own use, but again, it's important to check the website's terms of use. Some images may have restrictions on modification or require specific modifications before they can be used.</p><h4 id="">Are all free images on these websites high-quality?</h4><p id="">No, not all free images on these websites are high-quality. Some images may be low-resolution or have other quality issues. It's important to carefully inspect any image before using it to make sure it meets your needs. Many free image websites also offer premium options with higher quality images if you need something specific.</p><h4 id="">Can I share or distribute free images from these websites?</h4><p id="">Yes, you can share or distribute free images from these websites, but make sure to follow the licensing agreement for each image. Some images may have restrictions on sharing or require attribution, so always check before distributing any image.</p><p id=""></p><p id="">Please share this article to your social media so that I, as a small business can make some small income from my time in writing this - thank you!</p><p id=""></p><p id=""><strong id=""><em id="">If you'd like to learn the fundamental design principles to help boost your design work, you can receive a free email every week...</em></strong></p><p id=""></p>
