---
title: "How to create a business or startup website"
slug: "how-to-create-a-business-startup-website"
date: "2020-12-15"
description: "How to create, procure or update a website and other digital assets for your business or business idea with advice on digital marketing and local SEO approaches."
introHeading: "How to create, procure or update a website and other digital assets for your business or business idea with advice on digital marketing and local SEO approaches."
heroImage: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/5f6c7756eae6eb60a54c6c38/60d18d15dbffc09094834366_Artboard%20%E2%80%93%209.png"
thumbnailImage: "https://uploads-ssl.webflow.com/5f6c7756eae6eb60a54c6c38/60d18d15dbffc09094834366_Artboard%20%E2%80%93%209.png"
published: false
featured: false
featuredPortfolio: false
ctaText: "Join the online meetup"
ctaLink: "http://bit.ly/HowToCreateYourWebsite"
---

<h2>What's in this article</h2><p>1. Purpose of this article and who it's for<br>2. A note on MVP's<br>3. The special challenge of startups<br>4. Before you jump in - Is the user seeing Value?<br>5. Webdesign - Content first!!!<br>6. Website creation platforms<br>7. If you’re not a designer, it can be tough<br>8. Web history overview<br>9. Modern design is flexible<br>10. Build it and they will come - Errrr no!<br>11. The 19 Marketing Methods<br>12. Designing your users ‘experience’, and how that translates to the web design<br>13. User flows, Sales funnels, Conversion pages, CTA’s, and Tracking<br>14. Breakdown of SEO - Search Engine Optimisation<br>15. For example: On-page SEO<br>16. Some common pitfalls - A.K.A ‘Rookie mistakes’<br>17. Technical SEO - Page Speed Issues Example<br>18. Page speed - why it matters and how to fix it<br>19. About the author and Wave Web Design<br>20. Join our next online event!</p><p></p><h2>1. Purpose of this article, and who it's for</h2><p></p><p>some of the challenges of startups (small businesses are exempt because they likely started small and built up customers)</p><p>The stages of business or startup blooming on the web - idea, initial website to test the interest and market feedback e.g. just an instagram account or typeform survey could to that....</p><p>Rookie mistakes ( so agrees my partner who is maybe humouring me! - not havin</p><p>Build it, but they may not come, unless you have SEO<br>Little bit about local SEO, importance of being on all directories<br>About site speed - google marks you down if...</p><p>The platforms - pro's and cons<br>Wordpress<br>Wix<br>Squarespace<br>Bespoke</p><p>The process you should go through to run a digital project</p><p>The costs involved, examples<br>Bespoke - your code and API's will constantly break. if you have a shop, you'll need to test that it's working weekly, and that's just ONE example</p><p>You should keep products and subscriptions simple, not just for fast user comprehension, but its so much easier to administer. e.g. x amount per year, no refunds, pay up front, if there is a larger plan, keep it simple.</p><p>Automate as much as possible e.g use buffer.com or better still semrush.com to manage social media posting - semrush also gives analytics and keyword research for 99 per month, BUT you need to be a marketing expert to be able to use all the features properly</p><p>It's very important to have a CMS where you can not only edit text, images, write your blog, but also control SEO elements, as per the info you get from Semrush</p><p>I haven't even got into<br>User research<br>Clickable prototypes<br>User testing and insights<br>A/B testing<br>....</p><p><br>OK, this is probably going to give a very brief overview of the skills required an online marketing professional needs, covering web design, web developerment, hosting, marketing, SEO and more... </p><p>It takes a long time to learn this, and due to sites like wordpress, most startup founders think that they can do this thermselves. &nbsp;BUt would you do the electrics in your home, or call an eleectrician?</p><p></p><p>Join our online event on the third Monday of every month at 7pm CET for an overview of the process and pitfalls of setting up a new business website. The session will have a Q &amp; A at the end, so bring your questions - all welcome!</p>
